---
aliases:
- /en/docs3-v2/java-sdk/faq/2/2/
- /en/docs3-v2/java-sdk/faq/2/2/
- /en/overview/mannual/java-sdk/faq/2/2/
description: 2-2 - No Available Provider (Address Not Found)
linkTitle: 2-2 - No Available Provider (Address Not Found)
title: 2-2 - No Available Provider (Address Not Found)
type: docs
weight: 2
---






### Possible Causes
* The Provider service is not started, or the registration center (such as ZooKeeper, Nacos, Consul) is down.
* There is an error in the Dubbo service configuration; the service name, group (default is Dubbo), and version must all be correct.
* The accessed environment is incorrect: typically, we have multiple environments such as development, testing, and production. Sometimes the published service is in the testing environment, but the access call is made from the development environment.

### Troubleshooting and Resolution Steps
1. Access the Ops system of the registration center to check if there is a provider list for the corresponding service; simultaneously check the logs of the server where the caller application is located (generally, each registration service's client will have corresponding log records) to see if there are records of address information being pushed/pulled.
2. If not, it indicates that the publisher failed to release the service; check whether the publisher's application started successfully.
3. If there is a service, check the registration center connected by the caller application to confirm it matches the expected environment.
4. If none of the above are problematic, check if routing filter rules have been configured, etc.


> This error code's FAQ page references Kongming's [“Common Dubbo Errors and Solutions”](https://github.com/StabilityMan/StabilityGuide/blob/master/docs/diagnosis/plugin/rpc/%E7%B3%BB%E7%BB%9F%E7%A8%B3%E5%AE%9A%E6%80%A7%E2%80%94%E2%80%94Dubbo%E5%B8%B8%E8%A7%81%E9%94%99%E8%AF%AF%E5%8F%8A%E8%A7%A3%E5%86%B3%E6%96%B9%E6%B3%95.md).

> The referenced article grants compilation rights under the [CC-BY-4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) license. Thanks to the original author.

